If missing values are present in less than 5% of the observations:

replace by mean / median or random sample (numerical)

replace by most frequent category or random sample (categorical)



If missing values are present in more than 5% of the observations:

do mean / median imputation and add a binary variable to capture NA (numerical)

add a 'Missing' label in categorical variables (categorical)

They key is to investigate whether the missing data have predictive value. If they do, it is better to try to differentiate them from the remaining observations. If they don't, then replacing them by the most frequent values is a good option.



Exceptions to the guideline:

If you / your organisation suspect(s) that data are not missing at random and do not want to attribute the most common occurrence to NA

If you don't want to increase the feature space by adding additional variables to capture NA

In these cases, replace by a value at the far end of the distribution or an arbitrary value.



Final note

Missing data imputation for data competitions or in business settings can be approached differently. In data competitions, a tiny increase in performance can be the difference between 1st or 2nd place. Therefore, you may want to try all the feature engineering methods and select the one that gives the machine learning algorithm the best performance. Different missing data imputation methods may help different models make better predictions.

In businesses or other organisations, the data scientists don't usually have the time to do lengthy studies, and may therefore choose to streamline the feature engineering pipeline. In these cases, it is common practice to follow the guidelines above, taking into account the exceptions, and do the same processing for all features.

This streamlined pre-processing may not lead to the "most" predictive features possible, but it facilitates the delivery of machine learning models in a shorter time. Therefore, the business can start enjoying the power of machine learning sooner.